# Understanding the Covariance between the Alleles of Regulator Rgg144 and its Cognate Signal Peptide SHP144


Streptococcus pneumoniae causes diseases such as pneumonia, meningitis and ear infections in children and the elderly. Several pneumococcal virulence factors together form a cell-cell communication system. Regulator gene of glycotransferase (Rgg144) is one such virulence factor that is critical for pneumococcal colonization. Further, short hydrophobic peptides (SHPs) like SHP144 are signal peptides that control the activity of Rgg144. Once exported from the donor bacterial cell through the ABC transporter called PptAB, the precursor pre-peptides are processed to produce activated forms known as SHPs. Later, they are imported into the recipient bacterial cell through the oligopeptide permease system. The SHPs then interact with their cognate regulator, that is, with the cytoplasmic transcription factor, Rgg, which in turn is activated once its cognate SHP binds to it. Additionally, Rgg144 sequences are known to be adjacent to their respective cognate SHP144 peptides.
Studying the covariation in both Rgg144 and SHP144 aids in understanding the specificity of interaction between the two. Through this study, we aim to bioinformatically study the conservation of amino acids across functionally-related alleles. This understanding about the allelic difference will enable us to study the interaction between different combinations of alleles that influences the virulence properties of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Hence, our overall goal is to elucidate the structure-function relationship of Rgg144 and SHP144.

A database with 7548 genomes of  Streptococcus pneumoniae was used for this study (Golden Set). Owing to the fact that Rgg144 and SHP144 are adjacent to each other, the Rgg144 sequence was used as an anchor to identify the different alleles of Rgg144 and SHP144. BLAST (blastn) was used to identify the top hits in all the genomes with at least 85% sequence similarity across a minimum sequence length of 79. The Rgg144 sequence from D39 was used as the query sequence. Furthermore, python code was used to obtain a list of unique alleles of Rgg144. We chose to focus on the top 1% significant alleles. 
The variable positions (the positions with low conservation) were isolated from these alleles and aligned using MEGA11. Motif logos were also generated using python. 
Using python code, we isolated 5kb upstream and downstream of Rgg144 to identify SHP144 alleles. Using SHP144 sequences from D39, TIGR4, PN4595, CDC108700 and SP23BS72 as query sequences for blastn, we analyzed the top hits with a minimum of 85% sequence similarity over a sequence length of ~60. Similar to Rgg144 analysis, we identified the alleles of SHP144, aligned the alleles and obtained the motif logo.
Furthermore, to understand the interaction between the different alleles of Rgg144 and SHP144, we used python code to generate UpSet plots. 
